# Module 10: Managing an Active Directory infrastructure in a hybrid environment
# Lab: Implementing and managing Azure AD synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum Corporation users currently rely on Active Directory to authenticate when accessing on-premises applications. While evaluating Azure Active Directory for A. Datum, you need to explore the possiblity of using existing Active Directory users and groups to authenticate access to resources in Azure, including third-party Software as a service (SaaS) applications. You need to verify changes to Active Directory user and group accounts can automatically replicate to Azure AD.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure directory synchronization.

- Synchronize on-premises Active Directory with Azure Active Directory.


### Lab Setup
  
 Estimated Time: 60 minutes
 

## Exercise 1: Configuring directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum plans to implement directory integration. To test the planned implementation, you need to deploy and configure Azure AD Connect to synchronize your test Active Directory domain with a test Azure AD tenant. Since you are not in the position at this point to verify a custom DNS domain, you will be using the default DNS name of the test Azure AD domain.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Sign in to the Azure VM hosting an Active Directory domain controller and create test Active Directory objects.

2. Create a new Azure AD tenant and a Global Admin account

3. Install Azure AD Connect with custom settings



#### Task 1: Sign in to the Azure VM hosting an Active Directory domain controller and create test Active Directory objects.
  
1. Sign in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open the file D:\\Labfiles\\Lab10\\Starter\\Set-ADUsers20533C1001.ps1 in Notepad and copy all lines to Clipboard.

3. In the Internet Explorer window, navigate to the Azure portal and, when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or a Co-Admininstrator of your Azure subscription.

4. If necessary, in the Azure portal, switch to the Default Directory.

5. Initiate a Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) session to **adVM**, and then sign in as **ADATUM\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.

6. In the Remote Desktop session, start Windows PowerShell ISE as administrator, paste the content of Clipboard into the script pane and run the pasted commands.

7. From the Windows PowerShell ISE window, run the **Get-ADUser** cmdlet to verify that the list of Active Directory user accounts includes **Beverly Beach** in the **AccountsToSync** organizational unit and **Darwin Shivers** in the **AccountsNotToSync** organizational unit. 

8. Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window.


#### Task 2: Create a new Azure AD tenant and a Global Admin account
  
1. Within the Remote Desktop session, from Server Manager, disable Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration for administrators and users. 

2. Open Internet Explorer and navigate to the Azure portal.

3. From the Azure portal, create a new Azure AD tenant with the following settings: 


  - Organization name: **AdatumSync**

  - Initial domain name: _a unique, valid name_

  - Country or region: **United States**


4. Refresh the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, switch to the newly created Azure AD tenant, and create a new Global Admin user with the following settings:


  - Name: **SyncAdmin**

  - User name: **syncadmin@_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com** _where **domain name** is the unique name you assigned to the AdatumSync Azure AD tenant earlier in this task_

  - First name: **Sync**

  - Last name: **Admin** 

  - Directory role: **Global administrator**

  - Show Password: _enabled_


5. Take the note of the autogenerated temporary password. 

6. Open an Internet Explorer InPrivate Browsing session, sign in to the Azure portal as SyncAdmin, and change the password to **Pa55w.rd**

7. Sign out as SyncAdmin and close the InPrivate Internet Explorer session.



#### Task 3: Install Azure AD Connect with custom settings
  
1. From the RDP session to adVM, switch to the Internet Explorer. Download Azure AD Connect from https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594 to the **Downloads** folder.

2. Install the Azure AD Connect tool, select custom settings, and then ensure that **Password Synchronization** is selected.

3. Set the credentials for Azure AD tenant AdatumSync to the SyncAdmin Global Administrator account.

4. Set the credentials for the Active Directory forest to **ADATUM\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.

5. On the **Domain and OU filtering** page, limit synchronization to the **AccountsToSync** organization unit only.

6. Accept the default values in the remaining wizard pages, and then start the synchronization process. Close the wizard once the configuration is completed.
> **Note:** You might need to wait a few minutes for the initial synchronization to complete.

7. In the Azure portal, navigate to the **adatumsync** Active Directory page. Click **USERS**, and then confirm that the list of users includes **Beverly Beach** from the **AccountsToSync** OU but does not include **Darwin Shivers** from the **AccountsNotToSync** OU.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have installed and configured Azure AD Connect, and have performed initial synchronization.


## Exercise 2: Managing synchonization
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum wants to test Azure AD synchronization by changing a few attributes of a user account and then performing manual synchronization.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Modify attributes of an Active Directory user and Initiate manual synchronization

2. Reset the environment



#### Task 1: Modify attributes of an Active Directory user and initiate delta synchronization
  
1. On adVM, start Windows PowerShell ISE  as Administrator.

2. From the Windows PowerShell ISE console, check the value of the **Title** and **Department** attributes of the user **bbeach** by using the **Get-ADUser** cmdlet.

3. From the Windows PowerShell ISE console, use the **Set-ADUser** cmdlet to set the value of the **Title** and **Department** attributes of the user **bbeach** to **VP** and **Marketing**, respectively.

4. From the Windows PowerShell ISE console, check the current synchronization settings by running the **Get-ADSyncScheduler** cmdlet.

5. From the Windows PowerShell ISE console, start delta synchronization by running **Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta**.

6. From the the **Users and groups - All Users** blade in the Azure portal, verify that the changes that you made to the user accounts have been synchronized to Azure AD. If you do not see any changes, wait for a few minutes, and then refresh the page.

7. Close the adVM remote desktop session.



#### Task 2: Reset the environment
  
1. On MIA-CL1, close all open applications without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows** **PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**. 

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Reset-Azure 
  ```

5. When prompted (twice), sign in by using the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription

6. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target

7. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

> **Note:** This script might remove Azure services in your subscription. We therefore recommend that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course, and not your own Azure account.
> The script will take 5-10 minutes to reset your Azure environment and make it ready for the next module. 
> The script removes all storage, virtual machines, virtual networks, cloud services, and resource groups.
> **Important:** The script might not be able to get exclusive access to a storage account to delete it; if this occurs, you will see an error. If you find objects remaining after the reset script is complete, you can rerun the **Reset-Azure** script, or you can use the Azure classic portal to delete all the objects in your Azure subscription manually, with the exception of the default and custom Azure AD tenants.

 

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have changed attributes on a user account, and then forced synchronization. 



**Question** 
How do you configure organizational unit (OU)-level filtering for directory synchronization?

**Question** 
When do you use Azure AD Connect custom setup?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
